{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 Ryan,\par
\tab Here are my comments on the thesis.  Although I've got 75 comments, most of them are pretty minor typo-style things.  Overall, I think the thesis reads very well, and is very complete (in fact, a bit on the long side!).  I think I can safely say that yours is one of the top 3 theses among any of my students to date, and is certainly the best-written thesis paper I've had.  You've done a very nice job with it (though I do have some changes, below).  Most of the edits below are in order, from beginning to end.  Let me know if you have any questions or need clarifications.\par
\par
0) Make sure you get the formatting the way the thesis office requires.  There are a lot of issues - things like the spacing, font sizes, table of contents, etc.  Be sure to do this - they will have a fit if you turn it in in the current format (even though I like the current format better...).\par
1) Abstract: "...especially being limited ... can produce and difficult..."\par
2) Abstract - "In this THESIS... \par
3) There is conflicting opinion on whether you should write in the first person singular, first person plural, or third person (usually passive) when you write.  Personally, I'm OK with any of them, but some people have strong opinions for/against one or more.  Third person is the "safest", though first person singular (as you have now) is my preference for theses.  Just be aware that some people might have strong opinions about this.\par
4) The second paragraph of the abstract could be split into two.  Currently the abstract is probably a bit on the short side.  You could also expand paragraph 1 to identify the particular characteristics you're going for - i.e. combininb ease of use with realism, etc.\par
5) Chapter 1 - First paragraph, last sentence.  "easily would be" -> "is".\par
6) For Figure 1.1 (and this applies to any other similar figures - the thesis office often won't let you include any copyrighted images (as this might be) without an explicity written release from the copyright holder.  It's OK to include (though see next note), but be aware you might have to remove it later.\par
7) Also, for Figure 1.1 (and any future similar figures), you should have a reference in the figure caption (not just the text) to the source of the image, saying something like "Image captured from Halo 2 [24]".  \par
8) Page 2: Instead of "The main contributions...", say something like "The main results of this work are..." - although it's commonly done, I've had it pointed out to me (by Fred Brooks, no less) that "contributions" should be decided by other people...  Either way is OK, though.\par
9) Your introduction should be a more complete summary of the _entire_ thesis (this is different from a paper).  That is, someone should be able to read your introduction and have a decent understanding of what you've done, except for the details.  Think of the abstract as a 1 page summary of the thesis.  Then, the introduction is a longer (5-10 page) overview of the rest of the thesis...  Often, the motiviation also gets put into the introduction (rather than its own chapter), but the way you have it is fine.\par
10) Be careful in how informal you are in the thesis.  Like with the 1st vs. 3rd person bit, some people feel the thesis should be written very formally (even if it makes it less interesting to read).  \par
11) Page 4, bottom: Not sure exactly how "When all you have is a hammer..." applies here - I'd leave it out.  Also, is it volcanos or volcanoes?\par
12) Section 3.1.1 : Don't start your sentence with "But" unless it's a clause.\par
13) Section 3.1.1 : Could also reference some book for more information (websites are far less reliable, and are bad references for archival material, like theses, though sometimes they are unavoidable).  I think the Levels of Detail book by Luebke et al. is such a possible reference (or at least, it will give a good reference...)\par
14) Generally, it's best not to use more than 3 levels of sectioning (i.e. 3.1.2.1 is bad, and 3.1.2.1.1 is especially bad...).  Just put the title there without a section number.  Actually, the thesis office requires that you "follow a journal model" for your thesis (you pick the journal).  This is basically meaningless since the thesis office's own reqirements supercede most of the journal-specific requirements, except for a few details, including section numbering (other things that will matter are the way references and figures are handled).\par
15) There's some wierd line formatting (into margins) in 3.1.2.1\par
16) Figure 3.2 has something messed up in one of the word bubbles (another is cut off, also).\par
17) Page 10, statement "In practice..." - break this long sentence into two or more\par
18) Page 10, second to last paragraph - also, mention this limits how fine of detail can be generated.  Maybe this is what you mean by "visual artifacts", but explicitly point out that this is not good because you would ideally like to be able to render a terrain with any level of detail (as is possible with fractals).\par
19) Page 11: Another benefit of voxel grids is the abiltiy to represent non-homogeneous terrain, useful for terrain simulators (e.g. erosion modeling).\par
20) Top of page 12: "I am unaware of..." sounds bad.  See if there's a way to rephrase this.  The way the paragraph currantly sounds, it's as though you're saying "I think there are disadvantages, but I'm not sure"\par
21) Page 12: "world generator being one EXAMPLE"\par
22) Page 12: "Fractals offer the additional advantage..." How is this an ADDITIONAL advantage - isn' tit the same thing as in te previous line?\par
23) Section 3.1.3.3 - You should probably give one level of control to simulation methods, to note that you have potentially more control than with GIS systems.\par
24) Section 3.1.4.1 - I'm not totally clear on why physically-based LOD-agnostic methods destroy natural qualities of the simulation?\par
25) Page 18.  I don't see the relation to proofs by induction....\par
26) 3.2 (all subsections) "This paper" -> THE paper.  Or, you can put the section heading in quotes or something, to show it's the title of the actual paper.\par
27) 3.2.3 - the chi-square formulas are kind of messed up.  Actually, this is the case for many formulas in the paper, so I won't mention them from here on.\par
28) 3.3 - Pun intended # ???\par
29) 3.3.3 - Some of the figures seem cut off.  Also, your captions should be more descriptive.  That is, what are the red, green, and blue curves, and why are they labeled with respect to g instead of gamma?\par
30) 3.3.3 - You want to mention that these are all measures with respect to a Gaussian (normal) distribution.  That is, some of the measures are defined in terms of the Gaussian, and the descriptions really only make sense when compared to the Gaussian distribution.\par
31) 4.1.1 - no comma after major\par
32) page 34: There will always bed someone -> BE someone\par
33) Figure 4.1 is missing in my document\par
34) For Figure 4.2, you should explain exactly what's going on.  I'm not really clear on what the circles mean, or exactly what is refined from the first stage (I had expected it to be a straight line) to the second.\par
35) Actually, I'd suggest making ALL your figure captions a bit more descriptive...\par
36) Figure 4.6 is cut off.  I'll stop commenting on cut off figures - you should make sure  you check this in the final document.\par
37) Page 43 "that end points" -> "the end points"\par
38) Page 45 top: "...we need A way of..."\par
39) I don't see equation 4.5\par
40) Page 46: "...how wide a range of nearby values IS acceptable"\par
41) Equation 4.7 is cut short.  OK, I won't mention messed up equations any more, either - just make sure you check them all.\par
42) page 48 - "We define the agreement as the 1 minus..." take out "the"\par
43) page 48 - "...each of THE statistical..."\par
44) page 49 - Sentence "These are combined...similarity" - reword - too many uses of "similar" - it's confusing!\par
45) page 53 - "...mean elevation IN the vicinity of that gene."\par
46) 4.3.3.6.2 - Don't start sentence with "But"\par
47) page 56: "...we want TO retain the randomness"\par
48) page 56: loose -> lose\par
49) page 59 - whereever -> wherever\par
50) page 61 "keep display"\par
51) page 63 "other the other"\par
52) page 63 "logiocal"\par
53) As a whole, section 5.3.2 is hard to follow.  It's more detailed than really necessary, and there are no drawings/figures with which to "anchor" the terms listed.  Some sort of diagram that shows how things fit together is even more useful than discussions.\par
54) page 70 - "up and up" should be "up and down"\par
55) Page 72: loose -> lose\par
56) page 72: "As a result, the actual (no comma) valid region OF (add "of") a..."\par
57) First semicolon in 5.3.5.1 should be a comma\par
58) page 73; "...rest of the framework TO BE implemented..."\par
59) page 73 "and my" -> "and MAY"\par
60) Section 5.4.2.1 - I thought this was what you were doing already (at least it was implied earlier)...\par
61) page 76: "computer their response" -> "COMPUTE their response"\par
62) Section 5.3.4: I'm confused (and don't have the book in front of me) - I though OpenGL's polygon tesselator worked only for convex polygons...\par
63) This is a general comment on section 5.  You have way more specific detail than you really need, here.  Your thesis isn't really the place to provide the documentation for your code (though it should document your ideas).  Since you have all this in there already, you don't need to get rid of it, but you could pare this section down significantly.  Your thesis should focus more on the big picture, with the implementation details being things that are generally useful to someone coming along later as far as system organization, structure, or lessons learned (you have a good bit of this in there, but there's other stuff that's not needed - e.g. specific lists of key commands).\par
64) page 81: "the so do"\par
65) Section 6.2.1 - state how they were classified (i.e. by hand by you).\par
66) Section 6.2.1 - there is a lot more you _could_ have done to test how good the classification/statistics were.  It should be mentioned in the future work (if it's not already).\par
67) page 83, missing closing parenthesis near bottom of page.\par
68) page 88, "These would be done adding..." -> "THIS would be COMPUTED BY adding..."\par
69) The most glaring thing to me in the 30m data example (figure 6.13) is the giant yellow obelisk (as well as some of it's smaller brothers).  This ought to be addressed in the discussion - I don't think it is, directly.\par
70) In section 6, it might be nice to show a couple other examples (not in as much detail as the "thirds" example).  It seems that for a flexible and useful tool, you want to show some other examples of terrain that it creates (using more interesting region boundaries, varying types, etc.\par
71) One thing that feels a bit weak to me, still, is the "seam" from one terrain type to the next.  I might have missed/forgotten this part, but make sure you talk about what that seam looks like, exactly how the blending occurs (in the fitness evaluation, in particular), etc. \par
72) Page 94 "This might give some insight INTO how to..."\par
73) Your conclusion is a bit on the skimpy side.  Though it shouldn't be a summary only, it doesn't hurt to have a bit of summary of the various things you've presented..  Also, note the "contributions" part, as noted earlier.\par
74) Some of the references are messed up, I'm sure you're aware (BROKEN Mandelbrot)\par
}
 